Add FileService MinIO documentation (#27)
ni/systemlink-operations-handbook: handbook/FileService-MinIO/FileService-MinIO.md

# MinIO as storage provider for the FileService

SystemLink FileService allows to configure and usethe Amazon S3 cloud storage instead of a file share. While NI officially addresses the Amazon S3 cloud storage, the FileService also works with MinIO which is a Amazon S3 compatible server-side software storage stack.

The minimum required SystemLink version is 2020 R3.

In order to use MinIO, there are two steps required. First, setting up the MinIO server and, second, configuring the FileService to use that server.

> ## Running MinIO server

Reviewer: Consider including numbered steps in this section and the next. That way, it's easier for people to follow.

I'd also check with @GrKuehnH to avoid content duplication. I think we're fine for this one, but just as a best practice : )

Author: I think numbered steps for the first section is fine. I'm hesitant to do so for the second section, since this is just one step after all. If numbered steps is preferred, I'd rather re-write the section. Would you like me to provide an alternative phrasing for this section that is numbered? @jjaco2

Reviewer: This looks good! Adding a few tweaks here and there, just for NI style and stuff. For the second section, I agree with you looking at it again. Below I've suggested a change that could make the second section more direct while also not having to number anything -- so minimal rewriting on your part!

> 1. In order to run the MinIO server, download the server from the [MinIO website](https://min.io/download). From the command line, run the following command to run the server:

Reviewer: For minimalism, can take out 'In order to run the MinIO server,'

Author: That raises the question if I can also modify the two sentences just above of that line which both start in "To use MinIO". I feel like my English is limited to just one way of starting a sentence :D 

Any suggestions? I think at least one of the sentence should read differently.

Reviewer: I left it in the other instances, since it's not a step but more of an overview of what the user generally needs to do. So I think you're fine!

```bash

> minio server <PathToRootFolder>

Author: The link to the documentation is a couple lines further down. I will see to moving that further to the top.

    ```

> 2. After starting the MinIO server, connect to the endpoint that is printed out in the command line by using a web browser and create a bucket by using the `+` button in the right bottom corner. This is only required if you run the MinIO server for the first time.

Reviewer: 'server, use a web browser to connect to the endpoint that the command line prints out. 

(possible step 3?) 3.  Create a bucket using the '+' button...'

    !!! note "Note"
        - It is recommended to set non-default access key and secret key. You can do that by setting the environment variables `MINIO_ACCESS_KEY` and `MINIO_SECRET_KEY`.

>         - There's no bucket region necessary for using MinIO, but you have to apply a bucket region for the FileService to work. Just use `us-east-1`.

Reviewer: This note seems more important than the other 2 -- like it might prevent a user from completing the task successfully if they do not apply a bucket region. If this is the case, configuring this setting should be its own step.

        - Any of the three endpoints in the first line of the minio server output are usable as `S3BackEndSecretKey` (for localhost given your client is on the same machine as the MinIO server).

> Detailed information on how to run the server, follow instructions from the [MinIO Quickstart guide](https://docs.min.io/docs/minio-quickstart-guide.html).

Reviewer: For detailed information

> ## Configuring FileService

Reviewer: Addressed in my review ^-^

> Follow the instruction from [the documentation on uploading files to S3](https://www.ni.com/documentation/de/systemlink/latest/data/uploading-files-to-amazon-s3) to configure the FileService.

Reviewer: instructions

> Follow the instruction from [the documentation on uploading files to S3](https://www.ni.com/documentation/de/systemlink/latest/data/uploading-files-to-amazon-s3) to configure the FileService.

Reviewer: For consistency, use File Service as 2 words here and throughout

> Additionally to that, there are another two undocumented settings required only when using MinIO:

Reviewer 2: I don't think we need to state they are undocumented since we documenting them here :-). Perhaps use "additional settings" rather than "undocumented settings"

> - `S3BackEndServiceUrl`: Set this value to ip:port of the MinIO server

Reviewer 2: Consider documenting this as a workflow with an order list rather than unordered bullets.

Reviewer: +1, but only if we can't roll this into the SPD content linked above.

> - `S3ForcePathStyle`: Set this value to `True`

Reviewer: Maybe we could ask Heidi to include these settings as an optional step in the linked S3 documentation. That would make this section more straightforward and truly one step.

Author: I talked to Stefan Romainczyk and we don't want to mention MinIO in our official documentation.

<!-- markdownlint-disable -->
<details>

> <summary>Example Code</summary>

Reviewer 2: This code snippet is so short that I don't we need to have it in a collapsable. Consider using a code fence instead.

# Leverage Cloud File Storage with MinIO

SystemLink File Service allows you to configure and use the Amazon S3 cloud storage instead of a file share. While NI officially addresses the Amazon S3 cloud storage, the File Service also works with MinIO, a server-side software storage stack that is compatible with Amazon S3.

To use MinIO with SystemLink, you need SystemLink version 2020 R3 or later.

> To use MinIO as a storage provider, set up the MinIO server on a system that you would like to upload files to. This can be the same machine as the SystemLink server or an own dedicated server. Then, configure the File Service to use that server.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
To use MinIO as a storage provider, set up the MinIO server on a system that you would like to upload files to. This can be the same machine as the SystemLink server or your own dedicated server. Then, configure the File Service to use that server.
```

## Running MinIO server

1. Download the server application from the [MinIO website](https://min.io/download).

2. From the command line, run the following command to run the server:

    ```bash
    minio server <PathToRootFolder>
    ```

    <figure>
    <img src="../../img/minio-server.png" width="500" />
    <figcaption>Running a minio server.</figcaption>
    </figure>

> 3. When starting the MinIO server for the first time, use a web browser to connect to the endpoint that the command line prints out. Create a bucket by using the `+` button in the right bottom corner.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
3. When starting the MinIO server for the first time, use a web browser and navigate to the URL that the command line prints out. Create a bucket by clicking the `+` button in the right bottom corner.
```

The terminology used in this context might be a bit too in the weeds for a IT admin wanting to set this up. I suggest we put things more in layman's terms.

After the point about navigating in a browser, maybe we should add a note about what the user should expect to see at this point?

Author: >After the point about navigating in a browser, maybe we should add a note about what the user should expect to see at this point?
The sentence would be along the line:
>Now you'll see the bucket in the web UI.

There isn't anything spectacular happening, is this of any help to the user?

Author: Thanks for suggesting better phrasing, btw. :)

    !!! note "Note"
        - It is recommended to set non-default access key and secret key. You can do that by setting the environment variables `MINIO_ACCESS_KEY` and `MINIO_SECRET_KEY`. Run the following two commands from the command line just before starting the server.
        ```

>         set MINIO_ACCESS_KEY=YourAccessKey

Reviewer 4: For deployment, I assume the user will want a .bat file or powershell script to launch the server with the appropriate configuration. Should we provide example source for such a file here, allowing the user to easily copy-paste what they need to modify and run on their system?

Author: Are you asking for a script file that adds the two required settings "S3BackEndServiceUrl" and "S3ForcePathStyle" to the FileIngestion json file or what is it you're asking for?

At any rate, an example for the json content is already given at the very bottom which they can copy to the file.

Reviewer 4: No, I am suggesting a script for running the service with the correct environment. Or to just gather the entire command line sequence in one clear code block, as is common practice for these sort of instructions.

Author: Okay, just amended the two code lines to a full example.
![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/42576216/114224086-e8706900-9970-11eb-8aff-5a9ffce78094.png)

Author: I think that writing a batch file would be overkill, since you had to pass in three arguments, make sure that there are three arguments, make sure that the path is valid, print out a meaningful help.... That's a lot for three simple lines of code.

        set MINIO_SECRET_KEY=YourSecretKey
        ```

>         - There's no bucket region necessary for using MinIO, but you have to apply a bucket region for the File Service to work. Just use `us-east-1`.

Reviewer 3: Does `us-east-1` apply for all global customers? I know you said it's not necessary but maybe we could provide a bit more detail here.

Reviewer 4: It sounds like you just need a string here that matches the SL configuration. We should probably make that clear, and that we are using 'us-east-1' in examples for convenience.

Author: 'us-east-1' is just an arbitrary but valid bucket region. It will work for any customer because minio is not hosted on AWS. I added this reasoning to clarify. I also added a second example just to decouple a bit more from the expectation that it had to be us-east-1.

For detailed information on how to run the server, follow the instructions from the [MinIO Quickstart guide](https://docs.min.io/docs/minio-quickstart-guide.html).

## Configuring File Service

1. Follow the instructions from [the documentation on uploading files to S3](https://www.ni.com/documentation/de/systemlink/latest/data/uploading-files-to-amazon-s3) to configure the File Service.

2. In addition to that, there are two additional settings required only when using MinIO. Add these settings to the JSON configuration file at `C:\ProgramData\National Instruments\Skyline\Config\FileIngestion.json`:

    - `S3BackEndServiceUrl`: Set this value to ip:port of your MinIO server
    - `S3ForcePathStyle`: Set this value to `True`

    You can paste the example code below to the config file and replace the placeholders with your actuals values.

    ```bash
    "UseS3BackEnd" : "True",
    "S3BackEndBucketRegion" : "us-east-1",
    "S3BackEndBucketName" : "<YourBucket>",
    "S3BackEndAccessKeyId" : "<YourAccessKey>",
    "S3BackEndSecretKey" : "<YourSecretKey>",
    "S3BackEndFolderName" : "",
    "S3BackEndServiceUrl" : "<YourServerIP>",
    "S3ForcePathStyle" : "True"
    ```

> 3. Restart the entire `NI SystemLink Service Manager`.

Reviewer 3: Do we have an expectation that the user knows how to do this at this point?

Author: I do think so.
For the 2020 releases, this information was also part of the official documentation. Since we're about to remove it from the documentation (we improved the customer experience and the phrasing has changed, thus), I just copied it over to this documentation here anyways.

# Leverage Cloud File Storage with MinIO

SystemLink File Service allows you to configure and use the Amazon S3 cloud storage instead of a file share. While NI officially addresses the Amazon S3 cloud storage, the File Service also works with MinIO, a server-side software storage stack that is compatible with Amazon S3.

To use MinIO with SystemLink, you need SystemLink version 2020 R3 or later.

To use MinIO as a storage provider, set up the MinIO server on a system that you would like to upload files to. This can be the same machine as the SystemLink server or your own dedicated server. Then, configure the File Service to use that server.

## Running MinIO server

1. Download the server application from the [MinIO website](https://min.io/download).

> 2. From the command line, run the following command to run the server:

Reviewer: Maybe 'to start the server' ?

    ```bash
    minio server <PathToRootFolder>
    ```

    <figure>
    <img src="../../img/minio-server.png" width="500" />
    <figcaption>Running a minio server.</figcaption>
    </figure>

3. When starting the MinIO server for the first time, use a web browser and navigate to the URL that the command line prints out. Create a bucket by clicking the `+` button in the right bottom corner.

    !!! note "Note"

>         - It is recommended to set non-default access key and secret key. You can do that by setting the environment variables `MINIO_ACCESS_KEY` and `MINIO_SECRET_KEY`. Run the following commands from the command line to start a server pointing at C:\minio with your individual access and secret keys:

Reviewer: 'NI recommends setting a non-default access key and secret key. To do this, define the 'MINIO_ACCESS_KEY' and 'MINIO_SECRET_KEY' variables.'

Since this is recommended, maybe we should make it an actual step? We could mark it as optional if you want.

Author: Actually, it is *not* NI who recommends this, but minIO themselves. I'd rather keep it as "It is recommended" but can certainly make it a separate step.

Reviewer: Ah! That makes sense. In that case, we might want to say that minIO recommends it, just to avoid liability on our end! We could even link to somewhere in the minIO help that supports this.

Author: Moved it upwards in the document, it's step 2 now.

        ```
        set MINIO_ACCESS_KEY=YourAccessKey
        set MINIO_SECRET_KEY=YourSecretKey
        minio server C:\minio
        ```

>         - There's no bucket region necessary for using MinIO since it is not hosted on an actual AWS S3 storage. You still have to apply a valid bucket region for the File Service to work. You can use any valid Amazon S3 region, like `us-east-1` or `eu-central-1`.

Reviewer: Is this a selection they make in the bucket creation prompt? If it is, this could maybe be another step instead of a note. Could be like:

4. Apply a valid bucket region for the File Service to work correctly. Specify any valid Amazon S3 region...

Author: Actually, this note wasn't correct there any more. Initially the note block was at the bottom of the file. I moved this out to the second paragraph, and introduced sub-enumeration. It's 1b now.

        - Any of the three endpoints in the first line of the minio server output are usable as `S3BackEndSecretKey` (for localhost given your client is on the same machine as the MinIO server).

For detailed information on how to run the server, follow the instructions from the [MinIO Quickstart guide](https://docs.min.io/docs/minio-quickstart-guide.html).

## Configuring File Service

1. Follow the instructions from [the documentation on uploading files to S3](https://www.ni.com/documentation/de/systemlink/latest/data/uploading-files-to-amazon-s3) to configure the File Service.

> 2. In addition to that, there are two additional settings required only when using MinIO. Add these settings to the JSON configuration file at `C:\ProgramData\National Instruments\Skyline\Config\FileIngestion.json`:

Reviewer: Add these MinIO-specific settings to the JSON configuration file at `C:\ProgramData\National Instruments\Skyline\Config\FileIngestion.json`:

Author: The settings aren't MinIO-specific. They are just required when using MinIO.
I'd go with "Add the two additional settings to the JSON configuration file...."

    - `S3BackEndServiceUrl`: Set this value to ip:port of your MinIO server
    - `S3ForcePathStyle`: Set this value to `True`

>     You can paste the example code below to the config file and replace the placeholders with your actuals values.

Reviewer: actual

# Leverage Cloud File Storage with MinIO

> SystemLink File Service allows you to configure and use the Amazon S3 cloud storage instead of a file share. While NI officially addresses the Amazon S3 cloud storage, the File Service also works with MinIO, a server-side software storage stack that is compatible with Amazon S3.

Reviewer 5: I think this section sounds a bit strange. With the use of "while" I was expecting a contrasting statement to follow. Ex. While we use A, we don't support B. I was thinking this might sound better.
'Since NI officially supports Amazon S3 cloud storage, the File Service will also work with MinIO, a server-side software storage stack that is compatible with Amazon S3.'
You may be able to leave the first part of that sentence off entirely. 
'The File Service will also work with MinIO, a server-side software storage stack that is compatible with Amazon S3.'

Reviewer: The current wording makes sense to me since S3 and MinIO are 2 different things, and I think the "while" statement is describing a more back-end process. But your second suggestion would work just fine here, I think.

Reviewer 4: I don't believe that describing a background process was the intent, though. I would think "because" if you want to keep the opening phrase, but I also prefer the more concise second option.

Author: I dropped the "while" part and used the concise version that Max suggested.

> To use MinIO with SystemLink, you need SystemLink version 2020 R3 or later.

Reviewer 5: @prestwick - Have we decided on a standard way to call out supported versions for documentation in the operations handbook?

> To use MinIO as a storage provider, set up the MinIO server on a system that you would like to upload files to. This can be the same machine as the SystemLink server or your own dedicated server. Then, configure the File Service to use that server.

Author: I tried using the MinIO Gateway tool to connect to GCS. Unfortunately, the Upload method that we use is not implemented. Consequently, usage is limited to the MinIO server tool. GCS, Azure etc. will not work.

I added a statement on that.

## Running MinIO server

1. Download the server application from the [MinIO website](https://min.io/download).

> 2. Since [MinIO discourages use of the default credentials](https://docs.min.io/minio/baremetal/security/IAM/iam-users.html#:~:text=If%20these%20variables%20are%20unset,credentials%20regardless%20of%20deployment%20environment.), you should change the access key and secret key. You can do that by setting the environment variables `MINIO_ACCESS_KEY` and `MINIO_SECRET_KEY`.

Reviewer: > you should change the access key and secret key. You can do that by setting the environment variables `MINIO_ACCESS_KEY` and `MINIO_SECRET_KEY`.

....change the access key and secret key. To do this, define the environment variables...

3. Run the following command to start the server with individual access and secret keys:

    ```powershell
    set MINIO_ACCESS_KEY=YourAccessKey
    set MINIO_SECRET_KEY=YourSecretKey
    minio server C:\minio
    ```

    <figure>
    <img src="../../img/minio-server.png" width="500" />
    <figcaption>Running a minio server.</figcaption>
    </figure>

4. When starting the MinIO server for the first time, use a web browser and navigate to the URL that the command line prints out. Create a bucket by clicking the `+` button in the right bottom corner.

> 5. Keep the command line open to retain your MinIO server.

Reviewer: I've never seen the phrase "retain a server." I don't see it much online, either -- does retain mean to keep it running? Or to save it, or something else?

Author: Meant "Keep it running". I fixed it

For detailed information on how to run the server, follow the instructions from the [MinIO Quickstart guide](https://docs.min.io/docs/minio-quickstart-guide.html).

## Configuring File Service

1. Follow the instructions from [the documentation on uploading files to S3](https://www.ni.com/documentation/de/systemlink/latest/data/uploading-files-to-amazon-s3) to configure the File Service.

    a) Set the access key and secret key you chose when starting the MinIO server.

>     b) There's no bucket region for MinIO since it is not hosted on an actual AWS S3 storage. You still have to apply a valid bucket region for the File Service to work. You can use any valid Amazon S3 region, like `us-east-1` or `eu-central-1`.

Reviewer: Leading with the user action here will still make this clearer. Does the user actually need to know that there's _technically_ no bucket region? Maybe something like: 

Apply a valid bucket region. You can use any valid Amazon S3 region...

    c) Set the bucket name you created.

2. Add two additional settings to the JSON configuration file at `C:\ProgramData\National Instruments\Skyline\Config\FileIngestion.json`:

    - `S3BackEndServiceUrl`: Set this value to ip:port of your MinIO server. You can obtain that from the MinIO output in your command line.
    - `S3ForcePathStyle`: Set this value to `True`

    You can paste the example code below to the config file and replace the placeholders with your actual values.

    ```bash
    "UseS3BackEnd" : "True",
    "S3BackEndBucketRegion" : "us-east-1",
    "S3BackEndBucketName" : "<YourBucket>",
    "S3BackEndAccessKeyId" : "<YourAccessKey>",
    "S3BackEndSecretKey" : "<YourSecretKey>",
    "S3BackEndFolderName" : "",
    "S3BackEndServiceUrl" : "<YourServerIP>",
    "S3ForcePathStyle" : "True"
    ```

> 3. In the `NI SystemLink server configuration` dialog, go to the `NI SystemLink Service Manager` tab and click `Restart` to apply the settings you made in the JSON file.

Reviewer 5: Shouldn't 'NI SystemLink Server Configuration' be capitalized?

Reviewer: It depends on whether we're talking about the actual thing people launch vs. the abstract concept -- and here, it's the former, so I agree we should capitalize.
